You know, I have one simple request.        And that is to have     sharks with   frickin' laser beams attached to their heads! Now
evidently, my cycloptic colleague informs      me that that can't be done.
Uh, can you remind me what I pay you people for?
Honestly, throw me a bone here. What do we have? —Dr. Evil




Homework 3

Refer to the documenting and submitting homework from here.

Using the mystring.h and mystring.cpp, (you're not supposed to use STL string for this homework)

1) implement a text file formatting program. It takes a text file data.txt as an input file. The file name can be hard-coded in your program or take a file name as a command line parameter. The file has a few lines of text but the length(column) of the line is arbitrary. One line could have anywhere between 1 to 200 characters before a new line (carriage return). Your program should ask the number of column to the user and format the text file accordingly. For example, if a user types 65, every line should be aligned 65 long. You may have to combine two lines to one to eliminate the white spaces and blank lines, or split one to two.

2) in cases you need to change line in the middle of a word, you need to use a hyphen (-) to connect a word between two lines.

3) There should be no more than one white space between two words. Multiple spaces, newlines or tabs must be replaced with a space.

You can assume that a hyphen can be added after the maximum column. So if you're formatting a text to 60 columns and a word is starting at the 60th column, you can add hyphen at 61st. Only the hyphen can come at 61st.

For the output, display the formatted text on screen and save it to data.out file.


Hint: read Appendix F for the file I/O and string handling. You may find eat_white( ) function useful for removing white spaces. Read Standard C String & Character and use appropriate functions like strcpy, strcat, memcmp etc.

Grading guideline

    Correct and complete functionality 70%
    Reasonable fault tolerance, i.e. it should not crash often. 10%
    Makefile and Readme 10%
    Documentation and comments in the code 10%

Due on Feb. 15th at 4PM.